Of course we see no message here
and of course we can't dismiss it by clicking because in our alert component here, we do have @input
and @output but we're not using property or event binding on our component at the moment because we created
it here in code,
we can't use the square brackets or the parentheses syntax here.
So how can we now pass data into that component or listen to an event or remove that?
Well, we simply have to store the component that is created here in some constant or a variable with which
we can work thereafter.
So here, I will store my component,
however it's just a reference, a pointer at that component
and therefore I'll name it component ref in this constant.
Now we can interact with that component.
We can use our component ref here
and this has an instance property which gives us access to the concrete instance of this component that
was created here.
Now this instance should have the properties we added to our component, so it should have a message
and a close property because both here are properties of your alert component. And indeed, if we type a
dot here, you see close and message here.
So now we can set message here equal to the message we're getting as a string and this should ensure
that the message is displayed.
Let's give this a try and let's save everything and try logging in with wrong credentials again and
indeed here is our message,
now that's great.
Now for closing, we simply manually have to listen to our close event here and for that, I again reach
out to the instance and then to close and remember that close in the end here is just an event emitter.
Now you learned that you should use event emitter basically only here when it's decorated with @output
and whenever you manually subscribe to something, you would want to use a subject, here is basically the
only exception to that rule. Since this is a component where we have @output, because we could use this
component by a selector as
well, we have an event emitter
and yet here, I manually want to subscribe and here, this is OK. So here we subscribe to this
and whenever this fires, we'll run this function which I pass to subscribe
and in there, we essentially want to clear that component reference right. Therefore, let's first of
all store the subscription because we should manage this manually here, private close sub which is of
type subscription which is imported from RxJS because the event emitter from Angular is based on
the subject actually and therefore, it has the same type of subscription.
So here, I'll store this close sub and now when we do close it, so when we make it into this function
here, we can call this close sub unsubscribe because I want to clear that subscription, because I know
that this component will be removed
and of course to remove the component, we use our host
view container ref and then we can call clear again, to clear all content that was rendered there.
Let's give this a try,
click on the backdrop and it's gone.
Let's try this again,
let's also inspect it in the DOM.
Here we can see, it is being rendered,
that's the app alert component, if I click close,
that indeed is removed from the DOM.
So this works, one tiny piece of extra clean up I want to do is I also want to clear that subscription
here
if we get rid of the auth component because if that auth component is removed, we also don't want to have
that old subscription here sit around anymore.
So I will implement onDestroy here into the auth component, onDestroy of course is imported from
@angular/core
and with onDestroy imported, here we have to add ngOnDestroy
and there I want to check if we have an active close subscription and if we do have one because we
only have one if we show that error alert,
therefore we need to check for the existence of this first,
if we do have one, then I want to unsubscribe and now this ensures that when we do see that error here
and we somehow would get rid of that auth component, we have no real way but still, then we would not have
that ongoing subscription anymore.
So with that, now I can close this and I'll try again with correct credentials and this now looks way better.
So this is how you can dynamically create a component from inside code.